1. 

i. Allow users to “go back” easily in one step

For a user’s experience to be delightful and efficient when using a mobile application, the app should have 
a functionality which should allow the user to go back one step as they use the app. The absence of a back 
functionality will always force users start over from the home screen, which could result in the lose of any 
unsaved data and frustration on the side of the user.


ii. Match the keyboard with the required text inputs

Another way to ensure that a user’s experience of an app is delightful and efficient is to implement 
functionalities that provide an appropriate keyboard for either text or numeric entry. This reduces the 
frustration on the part of the user since they do not have to switch between keyboard layouts. This 
functionality must be implemented throughout the app rather than only for certain features to ensure 
consistency. 


iii. Provide text labels and visual keys to clarify 22 visual information

Having apps with labelled icons go a long way to enhance user’s experience in a positive way. Labelling icons 
and other visuals allow for proper interpretation. Unlabeled icons may turn to increase the frustration of the 
user when they are trying to navigate the app. As such, these apps might end up not being used since they will 
be deemed inefficient by the user. Icons that are labeled are much more likely to be used. 


2. Mobile apps: BK Mobile and Ethiopian Airlines mobile applications

The BK Mobile is an android application owned by Bank of Kigali to enable customers undertake bank transactions
at the comfort of their homes and at relative ease. The app illustrates all of the above listed principles. The 
app has labelled icons to allow for efficient navigation. Also, the app authomatically provides a numeric 
keyboard when inputing one's pin. The app also has a "go back" functionality to allow for one step navigation to 
the previous page.

Ethiopian Airlines is an android mobile application owned by Ethiopian Airlines to enable customers book flights
at ease. The app has an implemented "go back" functionality to allow for one step navigation to the previous page.
The app authomatically provides a numeric keyboard functionality when inputing one's membership ID during 
registration without having to switch between keyboard formats. The app also has labelled icons which allows for
easy navigation whiles reducing user frustration.
